logs/round-one.md, before:

### 100 Days of Code | Round One
**Started:** January 08, 2018

**Completed:**

---

Follow me on: [Twitter](http://www.twitter.com/thejessicafelts), [Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/thejessicafelts), or [Instagram](http://www.instagram.com/thejessicafelts); or connected with me on [LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/in/thejessicafelts).

---

## Day 005
###### January 12, 2018

**Today's Focus Areas:**
+ [Github Pages](http://thejessicafelts.github.io) "Version 2.0" Development
+ Creating a list of [Potential Projects](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/potentialprojectlist/blob/master/redesign-redevelop/list.md)

**Today's Progress**: Today has been a very lazy day. I haven't been feeling well, and staring at a computer screen is one of the last things I wanted to do. However, I did manage to get a few things accomplished: I have began looking into, and experimenting with, alternatives for my Filtering issue on my GitHub Pages site. I've also watched some videos on Machine Learning and Neural Networks - something I'd like to learn more about this year. Additionally, I've created a list of [Potential Projects](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/potentialprojectlist/blob/master/redesign-redevelop/list.md), specifically of websites I'd like to Redesign and Redevelop for practice, this year.

**Thoughts:** Pushing yourself to complete things like this - or any sort of daily challenge - can be hard when you don't feel well. But having the commitment to stick to it is something that I think I'll thank myself for in the long run.

**Link to work:**
+ [My Current GitHub Pages Website](http://thejessicafelts.github.io)
+ [The "thejessicafelts.github.io_redesgin" Repository](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/thejessicafelts.github.io_redesign)
+ [List to the "Potential Projects" List](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/potentialprojectlist/blob/master/redesign-redevelop/list.md)


## Day 004
###### January 11, 2018

**Today's Focus Areas:**
+ [Github Pages](http://thejessicafelts.github.io) "Version 2.0" Development

**Today's Progress**: Today, I'm continuing work on the Filtering feature of my new Projects page, on my GitHub Pages site. Yesterday, I was able to get the filtering working, so that no matter what selections were made (there are three filtering categories, with two to four options each), the appropriate boxes would highlight. The problem is this is that there was a lot of repetitive code, and I _know_ there has to be a better, cleaner, shorter way to accomplish this. Today, I will continue working to refactor this code, and see how far I can get within the day. So far, I'm going through and rewriting parts of the JavaScript that I believe may be a little sloppy - afterwards, I'll work on how I identify each of the projects, and see if I can slim that part down some as well.

**Thoughts:** This is one of the more difficult projects I've taken on in recent memory. Filtering is something I've always wanted to have a grasp on, but not something I ever sat myself down and learned. I have no idea if this is the "correct" way to go about doing it, but I'm getting it to work for me, regardless.

**Link to work:**
+ [My Current GitHub Pages Website](http://thejessicafelts.github.io)
+ [The "thejessicafelts.github.io_redesgin" Repository](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/thejessicafelts.github.io_redesign)


## Day 003
###### January 10, 2018

**Today's Focus Areas:**
+ Professional Work from a Long-Term Contract Client
+ [Github Pages](http://thejessicafelts.github.io) "Version 2.0" Development
+ WordPress Theme Development

**Today's Progress**: Aside from "work" work, and dabbling with WordPress theme development, like I've been doing daily, today I'm also going to be working on updating my GitHub Pages website. I use my GitHub Pages site as a portfolio of sorts, where I can keep a gallery, or list, of projects, with links and demos for people to view. Currently, the site is nothing more than an incomplete list of some projects I've taken on. I also include a biography, and a contact link. Nothing spectacular. Now, I've had to resort to using this site as a main portfolio for myself, as I had taken down my main website - assuming I'd relaunch it much sooner than has happened. So, while I'm still working on relaunching that site, I decided a good use of my Personal Development time would be to redesign how the GitHub Pages site looks and feels, make it more professional, and just make it more complete.

Today, I'm going to be working on playing around with showing and hiding divs with javascript. Just writing that out feels weird, because this is something I have known how to do for a long time, but for my GitHub Pages site, I would like to be able to assign different data-* attributes to each project I feature, and then be able to show or hide projects based on if the user selects to see them. Basically, I want to be able to filter projects by project type, year, or completion. The only way I can think to do this (that will be accepted by GitHub Pages) is with JavaScript, so today I'm going to play around, and see if I can get that to work.

**Thoughts:** Over the last two days, I've had to really think about how I want to develop this GitHub Pages site, to allow for the filtering that I want the site to have. I have considered using classes for each of the project divs, but I think that I can accomplish the same effect by using data-* attributes - something I have very little experience in using. GitHub Pages is a great service, and anyone who has a GitHub account, should definitely put together a GitHub Pages site with a list of projects - but working around its limitations has proven challenging for me (again, in respect to my wanting to filter things). It's challenging in a good way though, and I'm hoping to work through it, with a good outcome.

**Link to work:**
+ [My Current GitHub Pages Website](http://thejessicafelts.github.io)
+ [The "thejessicafelts.github.io_redesgin" Repository](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/thejessicafelts.github.io_redesign)

## Day 002
###### January 09, 2018

**Today's Focus Areas:**
+ Professional Work from a Long-Term Contract Client
+ WordPress Theme Development

**Today's Progress**: There isn't a lot I can talk about with my work today. The bulk of my development today will be billable work for a long-term contract client, with the remainder being work on the WordPress theme (and possibly a plugin?) for [my website](http://www.thejessicafelts.com). Obviously I'm still using the Twenty Sixteen theme from WordPress. That will be changing soon.

I'm also going to be working on a separate WordPress project as well, if time allows. Again, another project I can't really talk much about, but something I hope to share more broadly sooner than later.

**Thoughts:** It can be really hard to find inspiration for projects, when you don't have a lot of time to sit down and look around for it. I always thought I was a decent designer - and when it comes to designing for other people, I am; but when it comes to designing for myself, I am just at a loss. What do I want? What do I need? I would make a horrible client. My main thought for today is that it's hard to start developing something, without any idea what you want the end result to look like. #TheStruggleIsReal

**Link to work:** None available at this time.

## Day 001
###### January 08, 2018

**Today's Focus Areas:**
+ Markdown (.md) files; specifically in relation to their use on GitHub
+ WordPress Theme Development

**Today's Progress**: I have been working on getting this log setup for a good chunk of this morning. I may fork [Adam Pritchard's Markdown Cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) so that I can use it for future reference. I have always had trouble remembering the finer points of markdown formatting. _**Goal:** A goal this year is to become better aquatinted with markdown, and to be able to write it more confidently._

After finishing this log, I will begin working on the first stages of development for a new WordPress theme. I relaunched [my blog](http://www.thejessicafelts.com) last night, and while the default _Twenty Sixteen_ theme is nice for starting out, my inner developer needs something fully custom, to be truly happy.

**Thoughts:** I really think I have under estimated the importance of keeping a log like this for the #100DaysOfCode challenge. As I've stated in the main [README.md](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/100-days-of-code/blob/master/README.md) file for this repo, I already tend to spend what this challenge would consider an _adequate_ amount of time coding every day, but to sit down and reflect in a log like this could prove to be very helpful and insightful.

**Link to work:** None available at this time.

Commit message:

updated file: added Day 006 and 007 to the round-one.md log.

logs/round-one.md, after:

### 100 Days of Code | Round One
**Started:** January 08, 2018

**Completed:**

---

Follow me on: [Twitter](http://www.twitter.com/thejessicafelts), [Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/thejessicafelts), or [Instagram](http://www.instagram.com/thejessicafelts); or connected with me on [LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/in/thejessicafelts).

---

## Day 007
###### January 14, 2018

**Today's Focus Areas:**
+ [Slide Out Navigation](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/slide-out-nav)

**Today's Progress**: Today has been a trying day. [David](https://github.com/hiplunatic) has been ill all day, so I knew there wasn't going to be a lot of progress made on the development front. This evening, I was able to sit down and work on a small project - a slide-out navigation system for a static website.

**Thoughts:** I find small projects, like the one I took on this evening to be very therapeutic in nature. I'm one of those weird people who happen to like coding as a hobby (something I've found to be much less common in my adult life, than it was when I was in middle- and high-school). Being able to sit down and work on something like this gives my brain enough of a workout that I have been feeling accomplished with the progress I've made, but it has been laid back enough to allow me to get my mind off of David being sick.

**Link to work:**
+ [Slide Out Navigation](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/slide-out-nav)

## Day 006
###### January 13, 2018

**Today's Focus Areas:**
+ Private Client Work
+ [Github Pages](http://thejessicafelts.github.io) "Version 2.0" Development

**Today's Progress**: Aside from a README.md commit to the 100 Days of Code README.md file, there was nothing committed today. It was a day filled with private client work, and general errand running (it _is_ a Saturday, after all). Behind the scenes, I continued to research techniques for the filtering system I want to implement for my GitHub Pages site, and also took notes of some other projects I might like to tackle in the near future.

**Thoughts:** While I am still committed to making sure I publish at least one commit per day, I have to realize that I'm not always going to make substantial progress on my projects on a daily basis, enough to warrant multiple, substantail commits. I have to become okay with this.

**Link to work:**
+ [My Current GitHub Pages Website](http://thejessicafelts.github.io)
+ [The "thejessicafelts.github.io_redesgin" Repository](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/thejessicafelts.github.io_redesign)

## Day 005
###### January 12, 2018

**Today's Focus Areas:**
+ [Github Pages](http://thejessicafelts.github.io) "Version 2.0" Development
+ Creating a list of [Potential Projects](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/potentialprojectlist/blob/master/redesign-redevelop/list.md)

**Today's Progress**: Today has been a very lazy day. I haven't been feeling well, and staring at a computer screen is one of the last things I wanted to do. However, I did manage to get a few things accomplished: I have began looking into, and experimenting with, alternatives for my Filtering issue on my GitHub Pages site. I've also watched some videos on Machine Learning and Neural Networks - something I'd like to learn more about this year. Additionally, I've created a list of [Potential Projects](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/potentialprojectlist/blob/master/redesign-redevelop/list.md), specifically of websites I'd like to Redesign and Redevelop for practice, this year.

**Thoughts:** Pushing yourself to complete things like this - or any sort of daily challenge - can be hard when you don't feel well. But having the commitment to stick to it is something that I think I'll thank myself for in the long run.

**Link to work:**
+ [My Current GitHub Pages Website](http://thejessicafelts.github.io)
+ [The "thejessicafelts.github.io_redesgin" Repository](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/thejessicafelts.github.io_redesign)
+ [List to the "Potential Projects" List](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/potentialprojectlist/blob/master/redesign-redevelop/list.md)

## Day 004
###### January 11, 2018

**Today's Focus Areas:**
+ [Github Pages](http://thejessicafelts.github.io) "Version 2.0" Development

**Today's Progress**: Today, I'm continuing work on the Filtering feature of my new Projects page, on my GitHub Pages site. Yesterday, I was able to get the filtering working, so that no matter what selections were made (there are three filtering categories, with two to four options each), the appropriate boxes would highlight. The problem is this is that there was a lot of repetitive code, and I _know_ there has to be a better, cleaner, shorter way to accomplish this. Today, I will continue working to refactor this code, and see how far I can get within the day. So far, I'm going through and rewriting parts of the JavaScript that I believe may be a little sloppy - afterwards, I'll work on how I identify each of the projects, and see if I can slim that part down some as well.

**Thoughts:** This is one of the more difficult projects I've taken on in recent memory. Filtering is something I've always wanted to have a grasp on, but not something I ever sat myself down and learned. I have no idea if this is the "correct" way to go about doing it, but I'm getting it to work for me, regardless.

**Link to work:**
+ [My Current GitHub Pages Website](http://thejessicafelts.github.io)
+ [The "thejessicafelts.github.io_redesgin" Repository](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/thejessicafelts.github.io_redesign)

## Day 003
###### January 10, 2018

**Today's Focus Areas:**
+ Professional Work from a Long-Term Contract Client
+ [Github Pages](http://thejessicafelts.github.io) "Version 2.0" Development
+ WordPress Theme Development

**Today's Progress**: Aside from "work" work, and dabbling with WordPress theme development, like I've been doing daily, today I'm also going to be working on updating my GitHub Pages website. I use my GitHub Pages site as a portfolio of sorts, where I can keep a gallery, or list, of projects, with links and demos for people to view. Currently, the site is nothing more than an incomplete list of some projects I've taken on. I also include a biography, and a contact link. Nothing spectacular. Now, I've had to resort to using this site as a main portfolio for myself, as I had taken down my main website - assuming I'd relaunch it much sooner than has happened. So, while I'm still working on relaunching that site, I decided a good use of my Personal Development time would be to redesign how the GitHub Pages site looks and feels, make it more professional, and just make it more complete.

Today, I'm going to be working on playing around with showing and hiding divs with javascript. Just writing that out feels weird, because this is something I have known how to do for a long time, but for my GitHub Pages site, I would like to be able to assign different data-* attributes to each project I feature, and then be able to show or hide projects based on if the user selects to see them. Basically, I want to be able to filter projects by project type, year, or completion. The only way I can think to do this (that will be accepted by GitHub Pages) is with JavaScript, so today I'm going to play around, and see if I can get that to work.

**Thoughts:** Over the last two days, I've had to really think about how I want to develop this GitHub Pages site, to allow for the filtering that I want the site to have. I have considered using classes for each of the project divs, but I think that I can accomplish the same effect by using data-* attributes - something I have very little experience in using. GitHub Pages is a great service, and anyone who has a GitHub account, should definitely put together a GitHub Pages site with a list of projects - but working around its limitations has proven challenging for me (again, in respect to my wanting to filter things). It's challenging in a good way though, and I'm hoping to work through it, with a good outcome.

**Link to work:**
+ [My Current GitHub Pages Website](http://thejessicafelts.github.io)
+ [The "thejessicafelts.github.io_redesgin" Repository](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/thejessicafelts.github.io_redesign)

## Day 002
###### January 09, 2018

**Today's Focus Areas:**
+ Professional Work from a Long-Term Contract Client
+ WordPress Theme Development

**Today's Progress**: There isn't a lot I can talk about with my work today. The bulk of my development today will be billable work for a long-term contract client, with the remainder being work on the WordPress theme (and possibly a plugin?) for [my website](http://www.thejessicafelts.com). Obviously I'm still using the Twenty Sixteen theme from WordPress. That will be changing soon.

I'm also going to be working on a separate WordPress project as well, if time allows. Again, another project I can't really talk much about, but something I hope to share more broadly sooner than later.

**Thoughts:** It can be really hard to find inspiration for projects, when you don't have a lot of time to sit down and look around for it. I always thought I was a decent designer - and when it comes to designing for other people, I am; but when it comes to designing for myself, I am just at a loss. What do I want? What do I need? I would make a horrible client. My main thought for today is that it's hard to start developing something, without any idea what you want the end result to look like. #TheStruggleIsReal

**Link to work:** None available at this time.

## Day 001
###### January 08, 2018

**Today's Focus Areas:**
+ Markdown (.md) files; specifically in relation to their use on GitHub
+ WordPress Theme Development

**Today's Progress**: I have been working on getting this log setup for a good chunk of this morning. I may fork [Adam Pritchard's Markdown Cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) so that I can use it for future reference. I have always had trouble remembering the finer points of markdown formatting. _**Goal:** A goal this year is to become better aquatinted with markdown, and to be able to write it more confidently._

After finishing this log, I will begin working on the first stages of development for a new WordPress theme. I relaunched [my blog](http://www.thejessicafelts.com) last night, and while the default _Twenty Sixteen_ theme is nice for starting out, my inner developer needs something fully custom, to be truly happy.

**Thoughts:** I really think I have under estimated the importance of keeping a log like this for the #100DaysOfCode challenge. As I've stated in the main [README.md](https://github.com/thejessicafelts/100-days-of-code/blob/master/README.md) file for this repo, I already tend to spend what this challenge would consider an _adequate_ amount of time coding every day, but to sit down and reflect in a log like this could prove to be very helpful and insightful.

**Link to work:** None available at this time.
